updated Dashboard, Pivot EUD 20.1 (#107)
DevExpress/dotnet-eud: dashboard-for-desktop/articles/dashboard-designer/appearance-customization/conditional-formatting.md

legacyId: 114184
---
# Conditional Formatting
The Dashboard Designer control supports conditional formatting. You can apply a custom style to data elements that satisfy a certain condition. Supported elements include cells in [Grid](../designing-dashboard-items/grid.md) or [Pivot Grid](../designing-dashboard-items/pivot.md), and cards in the [Card item](../designing-dashboard-items/cards.md).

![BlogDashboard_ConditionalFormatting](../../../images/img118090.png)

> Comparison rules used in conditional formatting can be divided into the following groups:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Comparison rules used in conditional formatting can be categorized by the following:
```

> * [Value](conditional-formatting/value.md) - Allows you to compare static values (such as Greater Than, Less Than, Between, etc.).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [Value](conditional-formatting/value.md) - Compares static values (Greater Than, Less Than, Between, etc.).
```

> * [Top-Bottom](conditional-formatting/top-bottom.md) - Highlights a specific number of topmost/bottommost values.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [Top-Bottom](conditional-formatting/top-bottom.md) - Highlights a specific number of top/bottom values (Top N, Bottom N).
```

> * [Average](conditional-formatting/average.md) - Highlights values above the average value or below the average value.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [Average](conditional-formatting/average.md) - Highlights values above or below the average value.
```

> * [Bar Color Ranges](conditional-formatting/bar-color-ranges.md) - Allows you to visualize numeric values using bars whose colors are contained in the specified color set.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [Bar Color Ranges](conditional-formatting/bar-color-ranges.md) - Visualizes numeric values with bars. Bar colors are contained in a specified color set.
```

Reviewer: Please change to:
* [Bar Color Ranges](conditional-formatting/bar-color-ranges.md) - Visualize numeric values as bars. Values within a range display a specific color.

(Sorry, I just noticed that "Visualizes" should be "Visualize")

> * [Bar Gradient Ranges](conditional-formatting/bar-gradient-ranges.md) - Allows you to visualize numeric values using bars whose colors are contained in the specified color gradient.

Reviewer: Please see my similar comment above. If my understanding is correct, would it be technically correct to say:

[Bar Gradient Ranges](conditional-formatting/bar-gradient-ranges.md) - Displays numeric values as bars. Values within a range display a specific bar gradient.

Reviewer: Please change to:

* [Bar Gradient Ranges](conditional-formatting/bar-gradient-ranges.md) - Visualize numeric values as bars. Values within a range display a specific bar gradient.

> The list below shows format conditions that can be applied to different types of data items.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Format conditions that can be applied to different types of data items are as follows.
```

Author: ```suggestion
Format conditions that can be applied to different data item types are as follows:
```

Reviewer: Is there any difference between my suggestion and your suggestion?

* numeric
	* [Value](conditional-formatting/value.md)
	* [Top-Bottom](conditional-formatting/top-bottom.md)
	* [Average](conditional-formatting/average.md)
	* [Expression](conditional-formatting/expression.md)
	* [Icon Ranges](conditional-formatting/icon-ranges.md)
	* [Color Ranges](conditional-formatting/color-ranges.md)
	* [Gradient Ranges](conditional-formatting/gradient-ranges.md)
	* [Bar](conditional-formatting/bar.md) <sup>1</sup> 
	* [Bar Color Ranges](conditional-formatting/bar-color-ranges.md) <sup>1</sup> 
	* [Bar Gradient Ranges](conditional-formatting/bar-gradient-ranges.md) <sup>1</sup> 
* string 

> 	* [Value](conditional-formatting/value.md) with the condition type set to _Equal To_, _Not Equal To_ or _Text that Contains_

Reviewer: ```suggestion
	* [Value](conditional-formatting/value.md) (with a condition type set to _Equal To_, _Not Equal To_ or _Text that Contains_)
```

	* [Expression](conditional-formatting/expression.md)
* date-time
	* [Value](conditional-formatting/value.md)

> 	* [A Date Occurring](conditional-formatting/value.md) for dimensions with the continuous date-time group interval

Reviewer: ```suggestion
	* [A Date Occurring](conditional-formatting/value.md) (for dimensions with a continuous date-time group interval)
```

	* [Expression](conditional-formatting/expression.md)
	* [Icon Ranges](conditional-formatting/icon-ranges.md)
	* [Color Ranges](conditional-formatting/color-ranges.md)
	* [Gradient Ranges](conditional-formatting/gradient-ranges.md)
	* [Bar](conditional-formatting/bar.md) <sup>1</sup> 
	* [Bar Color Ranges](conditional-formatting/bar-color-ranges.md) <sup>1</sup> 
	* [Bar Gradient Ranges](conditional-formatting/bar-gradient-ranges.md) <sup>1</sup> 

	<sup>1</sup>  The Card dashboard item does not support these rules.

## Create a Format Rule

You can create format rules in the following ways:

* Click the **Edit Rules** button on the **Home** ribbon tab. 

  ![EditRules_Ribbon](../../../images/editrules_ribbon118564.png)

> 	The invoked dialog contains the **calculated by** combo box where you can select the item whose values are used to calculate the format rule. You can calculate a format rule using [measures or dimensions](../binding-dashboard-items-to-data/binding-dashboard-items-to-data.md). For the Card dashboard item, format rules also can be calculated with [delta](../designing-dashboard-items/cards/delta.md) values. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
	The invoked dialog contains the **calculated by** combo box, where you can select the item whose values are used to calculate the format rule. You can use [measures or dimensions](../binding-dashboard-items-to-data/binding-dashboard-items-to-data.md) to calculate a format rule. For the Card dashboard item, format rules are also calculated with [delta](../designing-dashboard-items/cards/delta.md) values. 
```

> 	Specify the delta type if you calculate a condition by delta in the **using** combo box. Click the **Add** button, select the format rule from the pop-up menu, and specify the rule's condition:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
	If you calculate a condition by delta, specify the delta type in the **using** combo box. Click the **Add** button, select the format rule from the pop-up menu, and specify the rule's condition:
```

	![](../../../images/win-conditional-formatting-card-rule-manager.png)

> * Click the measure/dimension menu button in the Data Item's pane and select **Add Format Rule** to invoke the same pop-up menu. For the Card, this menu is invoked when you click the series dimension/[hidden measure](../binding-dashboard-items-to-data/hidden-data-items.md) menu button.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Click the measure/dimension menu button in the Data Item's pane and select **Add Format Rule** to invoke its pop-up menu. For the Card, this menu is invoked when you click the series dimension/[hidden measure](../binding-dashboard-items-to-data/hidden-data-items.md) menu button.
```

    ![AddFormatRule_ValueItem](../../../images/img118549.png)

> For the Grid dashboard item, you can also right-click the column's header, select **Add Format Rule** and choose the condition.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For a Grid dashboard item, you can also right-click the column header, select **Add Format Rule** and choose the condition.
```

>  Specify [appearance settings](#specify-appearance-settings) and set the condition's value for the format rule. Available settings depend on the selected format rule. The image below displays the **Greater Than** dialog corresponding to the [Value](conditional-formatting/value.md) format condition for the [Grid](../designing-dashboard-items/grid.md) dashboard item. _ExtendedPrice_ is a data item to which the format condition applies in the **Apply to** drop-down list.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 Specify [appearance settings](#specify-appearance-settings) and set the condition's value for the format rule. Available settings depend on the selected format rule. The image below displays the **Greater Than** dialog (corresponding to the [Value](conditional-formatting/value.md) format condition) for the [Grid](../designing-dashboard-items/grid.md) dashboard item. As shown in the image below, the format condition applies to the _ExtendedPrice_ data item in the **Apply to** drop-down list.
```

 ![GreaterThanDialog](../../../images/img118555.png)

	

> Settings, where you can apply a format rule, depend on the dashboard item. Refer to the following sections for more information:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Format rule settings depend on the dashboard item. Refer to the following sections for more information:
```

* [Conditional Formatting - Grid](../designing-dashboard-items/grid/conditional-formatting.md)
* [Conditional Formatting - Pivot](../designing-dashboard-items/pivot/conditional-formatting.md)
* [Conditional Formatting - Card](../designing-dashboard-items/cards/conditional-formatting.md)

## Specify Appearance Settings
You can configure and customize current format condition appearance settings.

> * The **Appearance** tab allows you to choose the predefined background color/font.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The **Appearance** tab allows you to choose a predefined background color/font.
```

	
	![NewRuleDialog_AppearanceTab](../../../images/img118585.png)

> * The **Icons** tab allows you to add the predefined icon.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The **Icons** tab adds a predefined icon.
```

Reviewer: Your suggestion looks good. Please apply it.

	
	![NewRuleDialog_IconsTab](../../../images/img118586.png)

> * Use the **Custom Appearance** area in the **Appearance** tab to add presets containing custom appearance settings. To add a new preset, click an empty square. This invokes the **Custom Style Settings** dialog, allowing you to specify the required appearance settings.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Use the **Custom Appearance** area in the **Appearance** tab to add presets containing custom appearance settings. To add a new preset, click an empty square. This invokes the **Custom Style Settings** dialog, which allows you to specify required appearance settings.
```

* To delete the selected rule, use the **Delete** button.

> * To reorder format rules, use the **Up** and **Down** buttons (the ![EditRules_UpButton](../../../images/img118698.png) and ![EditRules_DownButton](../../../images/img118699.png) icon, respectively). Reordering of rules allows you to specify the priority of rules from higher (a bottommost rule) to lower (a topmost rule).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* To reorder format rules, use the **Up** and **Down** buttons (![EditRules_UpButton](../../../images/img118698.png) and ![EditRules_DownButton](../../../images/img118699.png) icons). The reorder of rules specifies reverses rule priority from higher (the lowest rule) to lower (the highest rule).
```

* To enable/disable the required rule, use the corresponding check box on the left column.

> * To create a new rule, click the **Add** button and select the required format condition. The **calculated by** combo box allows you to select the measure/dimension that is used to calculate the format rule. For Card, when you create a rule for delta, specify the delta type whose values are used to calculate a condition in the **using** combo box.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* To create a new rule, click the **Add** button and select the required format condition. The **calculated by** combo box allows you to select the measure/dimension used to calculate the format rule. For a Card, when you create a delta rule, specify the delta type (whose values are used to calculate a condition) in the **using** combo box.
```
